---
date: 2024-05-10
title: 240510 Category Organization
---

# Category Organization

## Context and Problem Statement

A structure is needed to categorize the works to be posted on the site.

## Decision Drivers

* From my perspective, I want to be able to intuitively grasp what kind of work I've done.
* It would be good if I could see how the topics I've dealt with have changed over time.


## Considered Options

* Organizing works by year
* Organizing works by topic


## Decision Outcome

Chosen option: "Organizing works by topic", because

* The structured categories can effectively show readers (including myself) how I view and approach different subjects.
* My works to date are well-distinguished based on major themes.

## Pros and Cons of the Options

### Organizing works by year
* Good, because it's possible to understand the context of how interests have changed by viewing works accumulated in chronological order.
* Good, because there's no need to worry about which topic to classify a particular work under.
* Neutral, because it's a neutral organization method that doesn't present a perspective on the themes of the works.
* Bad, because one needs to view all the works to understand what themes have been covered.

### Organizing works by topic
* Good, because it's possible to grasp at a glance what themes have been covered.
* Neutral, because when adding new work, I can imbue it with intention by considering which perspective to view it from. In other words, I can directly create a narrative.
* Bad, because if the category structure isn't well-designed, it might be difficult to classify works. In other words, the narrative could become ambiguous.