---
title: "Logging TIL(Today I Learned)"
---

[:material-arrow-left-bold: Back to post list](../index.md){ .md-button }

`2024. 07. 14.`

While searching for necessary development resources and visiting various blogs, I often come across people managing TILs (Today I Learned). It's about keeping a log of what they've studied that day, organized to their liking. While I thought that recording lots of small details might not be useful later, I also thought that if well-organized, it might be worth revisiting. So, I thought it might be fun to manage a TIL someday when I have the energy.

Recently, while working on a company project, I had to revisit a project I last touched about half an year ago. When I tried to find the links I had referenced and the things I learned through trial and error, they were hard to find. Some information was in my personal Slack, some was scattered in various text documents where I leave notes while working, and some things I hadn't recorded at all. Eventually, I gave up trying to gather the information and chose to search from scratch.

If this is the case for content from just six months ago, I realized that for older content, it would be better for my mental health to just start searching from the beginning if there's no well-organized document. If I had just written down a brief note about what context I was searching in, what resources I found, and how they helped, it would have been much easier for me to handle the project I'm working on. So, I decided to create [a place to organize TIL](../../tools/index.md) and manage it consistently for my future self six months from now. I plan to write in Korean, and for ease of management, I don't have any plans to translate it into English yet.

[:material-arrow-left-bold: Back to post list](../index.md){ .md-button }